what is WCAG 2.1?
WCAG stands for Web Content Accessability Guidelines and aims to accomidate people with disabilities and make things easier for them to navigate, use, see, or hear. 2.1 is the latest version of these guidelines.


User Agent
a user agent is any software that a person uses to access web content.
they can be command driven or GUI-based.
usually a user agent or UA is referring to a web browser.
screen readers are not a UA. They work seperately, on top of a web browser or any other software on your device.

Assistive Technologies!
These are really wonderful things. Assistive technologies are what make the web accessable to people with disabilities, but It's our responsability as developers to make sure our content is as optimized as possible for these technologies. 
    Examples include:
    Screen magnifiers
    **  Refreshable Braille Display
        these are common at public kiosks. They raise and lower pins in the proper sequence to convert text to braille
    Screen readers
    Voice browsers -- similar to screen reader but only for web content.

Alternative input devices
which are for people who may not be able to use a keyboard or mouse.
    Head pointers
    Motion tracking or eye tracking
    "Switches" or single switch entry devices
    Large print or tactile keyboards
    Speech input software


Adaptive Strategies
these are options people may toggle to assist them or improve their interaction with web content. 
    Examples include:
    increasing text size
    enabling high contrast
    reducting mouse speed/sensitivity
    enabling closed captions
    **  Reduced interface
        a reduced interface may show an outline of a web page, showing only the most relevant information or by hiding less relevaant or unnecessary content. 

Presentation
    sometimes people with dyslexia may use text to speech to assist reading. Highlighting text while it's being read aloud may also be very beneficial

some people may use browser plugins that pause, hide, or stop automatic things like animations, pop-up windows, and redirection. Basically anything that could overwhealm the user.

glossarys explaining complex words and phrases can be super helpful not only to people who may have difficulties reading or writing, but also to people viewing content that is not in their native language.

Volume control seperate to the overall system volume can be very convenient not only for people with poor hearing but also for people using screen readers. 

Sounds that automatically play can really hinder the user experience when using a screen reader bbecause they can play over the screenreader, making it difficult or even impossible to navigate the page.

Visual orientation cues
using things like different background colors for specific sections of a web page help users differentiate the different parts of content which can be really helpful for people with certain disabilities.
    Also ensuring that titles, headings, and relevant information is in a prominent area will assist users with navigation and orientation.

Supplemental illustrations
these can go a long way when used in the right context to help people with low literacy or empairments. something as simple as using an emoji can get the point across to someone with low or even no literacy 
(in a certain language or overall)   

clear and consistent design
navigation and links should clearly and concisely convey their destination and purpose.
sections of information should be clearly or visibly seperated into appropriate groups.


multimedia alternative text
alternative text for multimedia and other non text objects should always be specified and describe the original content.
there are many reasons as to why or where an alternate text may come into play. Ultimately, its important for all non-text objects.


content should be organized in a manner so that it can be navigated and understood without the use of stylesheets. Older technology or low/poor bandwidth connections may not be able to handle style sheets.



